# Lab 6: Processor Internals and Program Execution

## Objectives

1. Designing a scaled down version of an instruction set architecture.
2. Designing and verifying a simple scaled down version of the processor - instruction fetch, decoder, control, ALU, registers, data memory read-write and dath path components.
3. How programs actually execute in a computer.
4. Issues about program loading and bootloading.

## Activities

1. __Design a minimal instruction set architecture for an 8 bit load-store processor with appropriate binary encoding. Describe the SA in detail in the report with all your design assumptions and rationale.__
    1. A table showing that all the instructions that you implemented, along with their op-codes.
    2. For each instruction, explian what the instruction does along with the format of the instruction in terms of bit width - such as which bits represent the op-codes, which represent the values being read in.
2. __Using the assembly language code that you designed in the previous step, create a program to perform the matrix addition.__
    1. Attach your Y86 assembly code, and corresponding captured output screen (generated by YIS). Clearly mention your assumption for matrix A, matrix B, and expected output matrix C.
3. __Design and verify a minimal processor that can execute the ISA.__
    1. Design the bare minimum circuits which are absolutely essential to execute the program that you created in assembly, and __design the peripheral input/output circuit(s) for this designed processor,__ which can interface with the RAM/ROM modules.
    2. For each functional block of the processor, explain its operation and if you split the work of creating the various sub-blocks, clearly demarcate which parts were contributed by each of the members.
    
## Extra Design Activities

1. Design to support multiplication as well, and verify it using two matrix multiplication. You need to extend your ISA to supprot this operation.
2. Extend your ISA to support subtraction and conditional branch.
